[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 723 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 723

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 26, 2023.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4365) making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2024, and for other purposes. The first reading 
of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall 
not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective 
designees. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill are waived.
    Sec. 2. (a) No amendment to H.R. 4365 shall be in order except those printed 
in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, 
amendments en bloc described in section 3 of this resolution, and pro forma 
amendments described in section 13 of this resolution.
    (b) Each amendment printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules 
shall be considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only 
by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment except as 
provided by section 13 of this resolution, and shall not be subject to a demand 
for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole.
    (c) All points of order against amendments printed in part A of the report 
of the Committee on Rules or against amendments en bloc described in section 3 
of this resolution are waived.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Appropriations or her designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of 
amendments printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered 
pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 
minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees, shall not be 
subject to amendment except as provided by section 13 of this resolution, and 
shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in 
the Committee of the Whole.
    Sec. 4.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4367) making appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2024, and for other purposes. The first 
reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the 
bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their 
respective designees. After general debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. The bill shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill are waived.
    Sec. 5. (a) No amendment to H.R. 4367 shall be in order except those printed 
in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, 
amendments en bloc described in section 6 of this resolution, and pro forma 
amendments described in section 13 of this resolution.
    (b) Each amendment printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules 
shall be considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only 
by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment except as 
provided by section 13 of this resolution, and shall not be subject to a demand 
for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole.
    (c) All points of order against amendments printed in part B of the report 
of the Committee on Rules or against amendments en bloc described in section 6 
of this resolution are waived.
    Sec. 6.  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Appropriations or her designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of 
amendments printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered 
pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 
minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees, shall not be 
subject to amendment except as provided by section 13 of this resolution, and 
shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in 
the Committee of the Whole.
    Sec. 7.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4665) making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign 
operations, and related programs for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2024, 
and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Appropriations or their respective designees. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The amendment 
printed in part C of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution shall be considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of 
the Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of 
order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived.
    Sec. 8. (a) No further amendment to H.R. 4665, as amended, shall be in order 
except those printed in part D of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution, amendments en bloc described in section 9 of this 
resolution, and pro forma amendments described in section 13 of this resolution.
    (b) Each further amendment printed in part D of the report of the Committee 
on Rules shall be considered only in the order printed in the report, may be 
offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, 
shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment 
except as provided by section 13 of this resolution, and shall not be subject to 
a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole.
    (c) All points of order against further amendments printed in part D of the 
report of the Committee on Rules or against amendments en bloc described in 
section 9 of this resolution are waived.
    Sec. 9.  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Appropriations or her designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of 
amendments printed in part D of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered 
pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 
minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees, shall not be 
subject to amendment except as provided by section 13 of this resolution, and 
shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in 
the Committee of the Whole.
    Sec. 10.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4368) making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2024, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill 
shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 
one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees. After general 
debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. 
The amendment printed in part E of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted in the House and in 
the Committee of the Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. 
All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived.
    Sec. 11. (a) No further amendment to H.R. 4368 shall be in order except 
those printed in part F of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying 
this resolution, amendments en bloc described in section 12 of this resolution, 
and pro forma amendments described in section 13 of this resolution.
    (b) Each further amendment printed in part F of the report of the Committee 
on Rules shall be considered only in the order printed in the report, may be 
offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, 
shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment 
except as provided by section 13 of this resolution, and shall not be subject to 
a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole.
    (c) All points of order against amendments printed in part F of the report 
of the Committee on Rules or against amendments en bloc described in section 12 
of this resolution are waived.
    Sec. 12.  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Appropriations or her designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of 
amendments printed in part F of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered 
pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 
minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees, shall not be 
subject to amendment except as provided by section 13 of this resolution, and 
shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in 
the Committee of the Whole.
    Sec. 13.  During consideration of each bill - H.R. 4365, H.R. 4367, H.R. 
4665, and H.R. 4368 - for amendment, the chair and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Appropriations or their respective designees may offer up to 10 
pro forma amendments each at any point for the purpose of debate.
    Sec. 14.  At the conclusion of consideration of each bill - H.R. 4365, H.R. 
4367, H.R. 4665, and H.R. 4368 - for amendment the Committee shall rise and 
report such bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on such bill and amendments 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to 
recommit.
    Sec. 15.  The Clerk shall not transmit to the Senate a message that the 
House has passed H.R. 4367 until notified by the Speaker that H.R. 2, as passed 
by the House on May 11, 2023, has been enacted into law.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.